UBUNTU.md, before:

# Setup instructions

The following instructions will help you to get ready for [Le Wagon](http://www.lewagon.org) fullstack bootcamp:

- Grab a text editor, where you will spend your days and nights
- Install a package manager
- Pimp your Terminal
- Setup git and GitHub
- Install Ruby


## Remote tools

To be able to interact when we are not in the same physical room, we will be using two tools:

### Zoom

⚠️ If you already have Zoom installed, please make sure that the version is at least **5.4**. Otherwise, you will not be able to use breakout rooms in order to work with your buddy.

Zoom is a video conferencing tool. To create an account and install the app, go to [https://zoom.us/download](https://zoom.us/download) and under **Zoom Client for Meetings** click the **Download** button. Open the file you have just downloaded. A progress bar will appear, then Zoom will start. Click on **Connection** and create an account with the **Sign Up Free** option:

![zoom-sign-up-free.png](images/zoom-sign-up-free.png)

Once connected, you should see:

![zoom-welcome-screen.png](images/zoom-welcome-screen.png)

You can close Zoom now.



## GitHub account

Have you signed up to GitHub? If not, [do it right away](https://github.com/join).

:point_right: **[Upload a picture](https://github.com/settings/profile)** and put your name correctly on your GitHub account. This is important as we'll use an internal dashboard with your avatars. Please do this **now**, before you continue with this guide.

![](images/github_upload_picture.png)


## Git

To install `git`, first open a terminal. To open a terminal, you can click on the Ubuntu Start button in the sidebar and type `Terminal`. Then click on the terminal icon.

Then copy this line with `Ctrl` + `C`:

```bash
sudo apt install -y git
```

:bulb: To **paste it in the terminal**, you need to use `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `V`.


Let's now install GitHub [official CLI](https://cli.github.com) (Command Line Interface) with the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-key C99B11DEB97541F0
sudo apt-add-repository https://cli.github.com/packages
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y gh
```

To check that `gh` has been successfully installed on your machine, you can run:

```bash
gh --version
```

If you don't get a prompt saying `gh version X.Y.Z (YYYY-MM-DD)` with at least version 1.4, please refer to [the documentation](https://github.com/cli/cli/blob/trunk/docs/install_linux.md#official-sources) where they list some troubleshooting information. In doubt, ask a TA.


## Sublime Text 3 - Your text editor

A text editor is one of the most important tools of a developer.
Follow these instructions in the Terminal:

```bash
wget -qO - https://download.sublimetext.com/sublimehq-pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
```

:point_up: This command will ask for your password with: `[sudo] password for <username>:`. Don't panick! Calmy type your password key by key. You won't have a visual feedback (like little `*`), that's **perfectly normal**, keep on typing. When you're done, hit `Enter` :muscle:.

```bash
sudo apt install -y apt-transport-https
echo "deb https://download.sublimetext.com/ apt/stable/" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/sublime-text.list
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y sublime-text
```

Sublime Text is free without any time limitation but a popup will appear every ten saves to remind you there is a license to buy. You can hit `Esc` when this happens, but feel free to buy Sublime Text if you really like this one (there are alternatives).


## Oh-my-zsh - Fancy your Terminal

We will use the shell named `zsh` instead of `bash`, the default one.

```bash
sudo apt install -y zsh curl vim imagemagick jq
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
# it will ask for your session password
```

Be careful, those commands will ask you to type your password twice. At the end
your prompt should look like this:

![](images/ubuntu_oh_my_zsh.png)

If it doesn't, **ask a teacher**.

To make this change stick, restart your laptop (or virtual machine):

```bash
sudo reboot
```


## GitHub

We need to generate SSH keys which are going to be used by GitHub and Heroku
to authenticate you. Think of it as a way to log in, but different from the
well known username/password couple. If you already generated keys
that you already use with other services, you can skip this step.

Open a terminal and type this, replacing the email with **yours** (the
same one you used to create your GitHub account). It will prompt
for information. Just press enter until it asks for a **passphrase**.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -C "TYPE_YOUR_EMAIL@HERE.com"
```

**NB:** when asked for a passphrase, put something you want (and that you'll remember),
it's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive. You'll type,
nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. Just type the passphrase,
and when you're done, press `Enter`.

Then you need to give your **public** key to GitHub. Run:

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

It will prompt on the screen the content of the `id_ed25519.pub` file.


- Copy that text from `ssh` to the end of your email address
- Go to [github.com/settings/ssh](https://github.com/settings/ssh)
- Click on the green button `New SSH key`
- Fill in the Title with your computer name (`Macbook Pro` for instance)
- Paste the **Key**
- Finish by clicking on the **Add key** green button.


To check that this step is completed, in the terminal run this.

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

:warning: You will be prompted a warning, type `yes` then `Enter`.

This is the expected result:

```
# Hi --------! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If you got this message, the keys were added successfully!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encountered an error, you will have to try again. Do not hesitate to *contact a teacher*.


---

#### :wrench: Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>If <code>ssh -T git@github.com</code> does not work</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Try running this command before trying again:

  ```bash
  ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  ```
  </details>

---


Don't be in a rush, take time to [read this article](http://sebastien.saunier.me/blog/2015/05/10/github-public-key-authentication.html) to get a better
understanding of what those keys are used for.


## GitHub CLI

CLI is the acronym of [Command-line Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).

In this section, we will install [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) to perform useful actions with GitHub data directly from the Terminal.

It should already be installed on your laptop from the previous commands. First you need to **login**, copy the following line (**do not** edit it!) and paste it in your terminal, then press the `Enter` key:

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

You will get the following output:

```bash
- Logging into github.com

! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

Select and copy the code (`0EF9-D015` in the example), then type `Enter`. Your browser will open and ask you to authorize GitHub CLI to use your GitHub account. Accept and wait a bit. Come back to the terminal, type `Enter` again, and that should be it :tada:

To check that you are properly connected, type:

```bash
gh auth status
```

If you get `Logged in to github.com as <YOUR USERNAME> `, then all good. If not, **ask a teacher**.

Then run the following configuration line:

```bash
gh config set git_protocol ssh
```

Finally, create a [gist](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/writing-on-github/editing-and-sharing-content-with-gists) to make sure `gh` is working:

```bash
echo "Hello [Le Wagon](https://www.lewagon.com) :wave:" | gh gist create -d "Starting my coding journey..." -f "SETUP_DAY.md" -p -w
```

This line should open your browser on the newly created gist page. See, we've just created a [**Markdown**](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) file!


## Dotfiles (Standard configuration)

Hackers love to refine and polish their shell and tools.

We'll start with a great default configuration provided by Le Wagon: [`lewagon/dotfiles`](http://github.com/lewagon/dotfiles).

As your configuration is personal, you need your **own** repository storing it. Forking means
that it will create a new repo in your GitHub account, identical to the original one.
You'll have a new repository on your GitHub account, `$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles`.
We need to fork because each of you will need to put **specific** information (e.g. your name) in those files.

Open your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
export GITHUB_USERNAME=`gh api user | jq -r '.login'`
echo $GITHUB_USERNAME
```

You should see your GitHub username printed. If it's not the case, **stop here** and ask for help.
There seems to be a problem with the previous step (`gh auth`).

Time to fork the repo and clone it on your laptop:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME && cd $_
gh repo fork lewagon/dotfiles --clone
```

Run the `dotfiles` installer.

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles && zsh install.sh
```

Check the emails registered with your GitHub Account. You'll need to pick one
at the next step:

```bash
gh api user/emails | jq -r '.[].email'
```

Run the git installer:

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles && zsh git_setup.sh
```

:point_up: This will **prompt** you for your name (`FirstName LastName`) and your email. Be careful
you **need** to put one of the email listed above thanks to the previous `gh api ...` command. If you
don't do that, Kitt won't be able to track your progress.

Please now **quit** all your opened terminal windows.

### Sublime Text auto-configuration

Open a new terminal and type this:

```bash
cd ~/code
stt
```

It will **open Sublime Text in the context of your current folder**. That's how we'll use it.

**Close Sublime text** and open it again:

```bash
stt
```

**Wait 1 minute** for additional packages to be automatically installed (New tabs with text will automatically open, containing documentation for each new package installed). TO follow package installation, you can go to `View > Show console`.

To check if plugins are installed, open the Command Palette (`⌘` + `⇧` + `P` on OSX, `Ctrl` + `⇧` + `P` on Linux), type in `Packlist` and then `Enter`, you should see a couple of packages installed (like [Emmet](http://emmet.io/)).

If you don't, please install all of them manually. The list is referenced [here](https://github.com/lewagon/dotfiles/blob/master/Package%20Control.sublime-settings).

When it's done, you can close Sublime Text.


## Installing Ruby (with [rbenv](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv))

First, we need to clean up any previous Ruby installation you might have:

```bash
rvm implode && sudo rm -rf ~/.rvm
# If you got "zsh: command not found: rvm", carry on. It means `rvm` is not
# on your computer, that's what we want!

rm -rf ~/.rbenv
```

Then in the terminal, run:

```bash
sudo apt install -y build-essential tklib zlib1g-dev libssl-dev libffi-dev libxml2 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libreadline-dev
```
```bash
sudo apt clean
```
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
```
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
```

**Close your terminal and open it again** (Alt+F4 and restart it). If you get a warning, just **ignore** it from now (Ruby is not installed yet).


Now, you are ready to install the latest ruby version and set it as the default version.

Run this command, it will **take a while (5-10 minutes)**

```bash
rbenv install 2.6.6
```

Once the ruby installation is done, run this command to tell the system
to use the 2.6.6 version by default.

```bash
rbenv global 2.6.6
```

Then **restart** your Terminal again (close it and reopen it).

```bash
ruby -v
```

You should see something starting with `ruby 2.6.6p`. If not, ask a teacher.

## Installing some gems

---

<details>
  <summary>Click here if you are in :cn: <bold>China</bold></summary>


  &nbsp;

  :warning: If you are in China, you should update the way we'll install gem with the following commands.

```bash
# China only!
gem sources --remove https://rubygems.org/
gem sources -a https://gems.ruby-china.com/
gem sources -l
# *** CURRENT SOURCES ***
# https://gems.ruby-china.com/
# Ruby-china.com must be in the list now
```
</details>

---

All, please run the following line:

```bash
gem install rake bundler rspec rubocop rubocop-performance pry pry-byebug colored http
```

If you encounter the following error:

`
ERROR: While executing gem ... (TypeError)
incompatible marshal file format (can't be read)
format version 4.8 required; 60.33 given
`

Run the following command:
```bash
rm -rf ~/.gemrc
```

Rerun the command to install the gems.

**Never** install a gem with `sudo gem install`! Even if you stumble upon a Stackoverflow answer
(or the Terminal) telling you to do so.


## Node (with [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm))

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.37.0/install.sh | zsh
```

Restart your terminal and run the following:

```bash
nvm -v
```
You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.

Now let's install node:

```bash
nvm install 14.15.0
```

When the command returns, run

```bash
node -v
```

You should see `v14.15.0`. If not, ask a teacher.


## yarn

Let's install [`yarn`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install):

```bash
npm install --global yarn
```

Restart your terminal and run the following:

```bash
yarn -v
```

You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.


## PostgreSQL

In a few weeks, we'll talk about SQL and Databases and you'll need something called PostgreSQL,
an open-source robust and production-ready database. Let's install it now.

```
sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev build-essential
sudo -u postgres psql --command "CREATE ROLE `whoami` LOGIN createdb;"
```


## Ubuntu inotify

Ubuntu is always tracking changes in your folders and to do this it uses inotify.
By default the Ubuntu limit is set to 8192 files monitored.

As programming involves a lot of files, we need to raise this limit.
In your terminal run:

```bash
echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p
```


## Extra

### Install video codec H264

On our pedagogical platform (Kitt, you'll soon discover it!), we have some videos. By default Firefox on Linux cannot play them as they use an unsupported codec (H264). To get those videos working for you, you need to run this:

```bash
sudo apt install libavcodec-extra -y
```

### Install useful terminal tools

`tree` is a nice tool to visualize a directory tree inside the terminal:

`ncdu` is a text-based interface disk utility.

`htop` is an interactive process viewer.

`tig` is a text-mode interface for `git`.

```bash
sudo apt install tree ncdu htop tig
```


## Check-up

Let's check if you successfully installed everything.

Quit all opened Terminal, open a new one and run the following commands:

```bash
curl -Ls https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewagon/setup/master/check.rb > _.rb && ruby _.rb || rm _.rb
```

It should tell you if your workstation is ready :) If not, ask a teacher.


## Alumni
:warning: If you have received an email from Le Wagon inviting you to sign up on Kitt (our learning platform), you can safely skip this step. Instead, please follow the instructions in the email you received if you haven't done so already.
If you are unsure about what to do, you can follow [this link](https://kitt.lewagon.com/). If you are already logged in, you can safely skip this section. If you are not logged in, click on `Enter Kitt as a Student`. If you manage to login, you can safely skip this step. Otherwise ask a teacher whether you should have received an email or follow the instructions below.

Register as a Wagon alumni by going to [kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding](http://kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding). Select your batch, sign in with GitHub and enter all your information.

Your teacher will then validate that you are indeed part of the batch. You can ask him to do it as soon as you completed the registration form.

Once the teacher has approved your profile, go to your email inbox. You should have 2 emails:

- One from Slack, inviting you to the Le Wagon Alumni slack community (where you'll chat with your buddies and all the previous alumni). Click on **Join** and fill the information.
- One from GitHub, inviting you to `lewagon` team. **Accept it** otherwise you won't be able to access the lecture slides.


## Slack

[Install Slack for Linux (beta)](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/212924728-Slack-for-Linux-beta-).

Launch the app and sign in to `lewagon-alumni` organization.

Make sure you upload a picture there.

You can also sign in to Slack on your iPhone or Android device!

The idea is that you'll have Slack open all day, so that you can share useful links / ask for help / decide where to go to lunch / etc.

In case of remote tickets, you will use Slack audio or video call to get help. To ensure that everything is working fine, launch the Slack app on your Laptop, then [follow this procedure](https://slack.com/intl/en-gb/help/articles/115003538426-Troubleshoot-Slack-Calls#run-our-calls-test) (tl;dr type `/call --test` then the `Enter` key in any channel).

After the test are finished, you should have green "All clear" messages at least for your microphone and camera. If not, ask a teacher.
![](images/slack_mic_cam_all_green.png)

Commit message:

checkout dotfiles branch and build

UBUNTU.md, after:

# Setup instructions

The following instructions will help you to get ready for [Le Wagon](http://www.lewagon.org) fullstack bootcamp:

- Grab a text editor, where you will spend your days and nights
- Install a package manager
- Pimp your Terminal
- Setup git and GitHub
- Install Ruby


## Remote tools

To be able to interact when we are not in the same physical room, we will be using two tools:

### Zoom

⚠️ If you already have Zoom installed, please make sure that the version is at least **5.4**. Otherwise, you will not be able to use breakout rooms in order to work with your buddy.

Zoom is a video conferencing tool. To create an account and install the app, go to [https://zoom.us/download](https://zoom.us/download) and under **Zoom Client for Meetings** click the **Download** button. Open the file you have just downloaded. A progress bar will appear, then Zoom will start. Click on **Connection** and create an account with the **Sign Up Free** option:

![zoom-sign-up-free.png](images/zoom-sign-up-free.png)

Once connected, you should see:

![zoom-welcome-screen.png](images/zoom-welcome-screen.png)

You can close Zoom now.



## GitHub account

Have you signed up to GitHub? If not, [do it right away](https://github.com/join).

:point_right: **[Upload a picture](https://github.com/settings/profile)** and put your name correctly on your GitHub account. This is important as we'll use an internal dashboard with your avatars. Please do this **now**, before you continue with this guide.

![](images/github_upload_picture.png)


## Git

To install `git`, first open a terminal. To open a terminal, you can click on the Ubuntu Start button in the sidebar and type `Terminal`. Then click on the terminal icon.

Then copy this line with `Ctrl` + `C`:

```bash
sudo apt install -y git
```

:bulb: To **paste it in the terminal**, you need to use `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `V`.


Let's now install GitHub [official CLI](https://cli.github.com) (Command Line Interface) with the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt-key adv --keyserver hkp://keyserver.ubuntu.com:80 --recv-key C99B11DEB97541F0
sudo apt-add-repository https://cli.github.com/packages
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y gh
```

To check that `gh` has been successfully installed on your machine, you can run:

```bash
gh --version
```

If you don't get a prompt saying `gh version X.Y.Z (YYYY-MM-DD)` with at least version 1.4, please refer to [the documentation](https://github.com/cli/cli/blob/trunk/docs/install_linux.md#official-sources) where they list some troubleshooting information. In doubt, ask a TA.


## Sublime Text 3 - Your text editor

A text editor is one of the most important tools of a developer.
Follow these instructions in the Terminal:

```bash
wget -qO - https://download.sublimetext.com/sublimehq-pub.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
```

:point_up: This command will ask for your password with: `[sudo] password for <username>:`. Don't panick! Calmy type your password key by key. You won't have a visual feedback (like little `*`), that's **perfectly normal**, keep on typing. When you're done, hit `Enter` :muscle:.

```bash
sudo apt install -y apt-transport-https
echo "deb https://download.sublimetext.com/ apt/stable/" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/sublime-text.list
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y sublime-text
```

Sublime Text is free without any time limitation but a popup will appear every ten saves to remind you there is a license to buy. You can hit `Esc` when this happens, but feel free to buy Sublime Text if you really like this one (there are alternatives).


## Oh-my-zsh - Fancy your Terminal

We will use the shell named `zsh` instead of `bash`, the default one.

```bash
sudo apt install -y zsh curl vim imagemagick jq
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
# it will ask for your session password
```

Be careful, those commands will ask you to type your password twice. At the end
your prompt should look like this:

![](images/ubuntu_oh_my_zsh.png)

If it doesn't, **ask a teacher**.

To make this change stick, restart your laptop (or virtual machine):

```bash
sudo reboot
```


## GitHub

We need to generate SSH keys which are going to be used by GitHub and Heroku
to authenticate you. Think of it as a way to log in, but different from the
well known username/password couple. If you already generated keys
that you already use with other services, you can skip this step.

Open a terminal and type this, replacing the email with **yours** (the
same one you used to create your GitHub account). It will prompt
for information. Just press enter until it asks for a **passphrase**.

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.ssh && ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -o -a 100 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 -C "TYPE_YOUR_EMAIL@HERE.com"
```

**NB:** when asked for a passphrase, put something you want (and that you'll remember),
it's a password to protect your private key stored on your hard drive. You'll type,
nothing will show up on the screen, **that's normal**. Just type the passphrase,
and when you're done, press `Enter`.

Then you need to give your **public** key to GitHub. Run:

```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub
```

It will prompt on the screen the content of the `id_ed25519.pub` file.


- Copy that text from `ssh` to the end of your email address
- Go to [github.com/settings/ssh](https://github.com/settings/ssh)
- Click on the green button `New SSH key`
- Fill in the Title with your computer name (`Macbook Pro` for instance)
- Paste the **Key**
- Finish by clicking on the **Add key** green button.


To check that this step is completed, in the terminal run this.

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```

:warning: You will be prompted a warning, type `yes` then `Enter`.

This is the expected result:

```
# Hi --------! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access
```

&nbsp;

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :white_check_mark: If you got this message, the keys were added successfully!

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; :x: If you encountered an error, you will have to try again. Do not hesitate to *contact a teacher*.


---

#### :wrench: Troubleshooting

<details>
  <summary>If <code>ssh -T git@github.com</code> does not work</summary>

  &nbsp;


  Try running this command before trying again:

  ```bash
  ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
  ```
  </details>

---


Don't be in a rush, take time to [read this article](http://sebastien.saunier.me/blog/2015/05/10/github-public-key-authentication.html) to get a better
understanding of what those keys are used for.


## GitHub CLI

CLI is the acronym of [Command-line Interface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Command-line_interface).

In this section, we will install [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) to perform useful actions with GitHub data directly from the Terminal.

It should already be installed on your laptop from the previous commands. First you need to **login**, copy the following line (**do not** edit it!) and paste it in your terminal, then press the `Enter` key:

```bash
gh auth login -s 'user:email' -w
```

You will get the following output:

```bash
- Logging into github.com

! First copy your one-time code: 0EF9-D015
- Press Enter to open github.com in your browser...
```

Select and copy the code (`0EF9-D015` in the example), then press `Enter`. Your browser will open and ask you to authorize GitHub CLI to use your GitHub account. Accept and wait a bit. Come back to the terminal, press `Enter` again, and that should be it :tada:

To check that you are properly connected, type:

```bash
gh auth status
```

If you get `Logged in to github.com as <YOUR USERNAME> `, then all good. If not, **ask a teacher**.

Then run the following configuration line:

```bash
gh config set git_protocol ssh
```

Finally, create a [gist](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/writing-on-github/editing-and-sharing-content-with-gists) to make sure `gh` is working:

```bash
echo "Hello [Le Wagon](https://www.lewagon.com) :wave:" | gh gist create -d "Starting my coding journey..." -f "SETUP_DAY.md" -p -w
```

This line should open your browser on the newly created gist page. See, we've just created a [**Markdown**](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) file!


## Dotfiles (Standard configuration)

Hackers love to refine and polish their shell and tools.

We'll start with a great default configuration provided by Le Wagon: [`lewagon/dotfiles`](http://github.com/lewagon/dotfiles).

As your configuration is personal, you need your **own** repository storing it. Forking means
that it will create a new repo in your GitHub account, identical to the original one.
You'll have a new repository on your GitHub account, `$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles`.
We need to fork because each of you will need to put **specific** information (e.g. your name) in those files.

Open your terminal and run the following command:

```bash
export GITHUB_USERNAME=`gh api user | jq -r '.login'`
echo $GITHUB_USERNAME
```

You should see your GitHub username printed. If it's not the case, **stop here** and ask for help.
There seems to be a problem with the previous step (`gh auth`).

Time to fork the repo and clone it on your laptop:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME && cd $_
gh repo fork lewagon/dotfiles --clone
git checkout --track origin/sublime
```

Run the `dotfiles` installer.

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles && zsh install.sh
```

Check the emails registered with your GitHub Account. You'll need to pick one
at the next step:

```bash
gh api user/emails | jq -r '.[].email'
```

Run the git installer:

```bash
cd ~/code/$GITHUB_USERNAME/dotfiles && zsh git_setup.sh
```

:point_up: This will **prompt** you for your name (`FirstName LastName`) and your email. Be careful
you **need** to put one of the email listed above thanks to the previous `gh api ...` command. If you
don't do that, Kitt won't be able to track your progress.

Please now **quit** all your opened terminal windows.

### Sublime Text auto-configuration

Open a new terminal and type this:

```bash
cd ~/code
stt
```

It will **open Sublime Text in the context of your current folder**. That's how we'll use it.

**Close Sublime text** and open it again:

```bash
stt
```

**Wait 1 minute** for additional packages to be automatically installed (New tabs with text will automatically open, containing documentation for each new package installed). TO follow package installation, you can go to `View > Show console`.

To check if plugins are installed, open the Command Palette (`⌘` + `⇧` + `P` on OSX, `Ctrl` + `⇧` + `P` on Linux), type in `Packlist` and then `Enter`, you should see a couple of packages installed (like [Emmet](http://emmet.io/)).

If you don't, please install all of them manually. The list is referenced [here](https://github.com/lewagon/dotfiles/blob/master/Package%20Control.sublime-settings).

When it's done, you can close Sublime Text.


## Installing Ruby (with [rbenv](https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv))

First, we need to clean up any previous Ruby installation you might have:

```bash
rvm implode && sudo rm -rf ~/.rvm
# If you got "zsh: command not found: rvm", carry on. It means `rvm` is not
# on your computer, that's what we want!

rm -rf ~/.rbenv
```

Then in the terminal, run:

```bash
sudo apt install -y build-essential tklib zlib1g-dev libssl-dev libffi-dev libxml2 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libreadline-dev
```
```bash
sudo apt clean
```
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
```
```bash
git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
```

**Close your terminal and open it again** (Alt+F4 and restart it). If you get a warning, just **ignore** it from now (Ruby is not installed yet).


Now, you are ready to install the latest ruby version and set it as the default version.

Run this command, it will **take a while (5-10 minutes)**

```bash
rbenv install 2.6.6
```

Once the ruby installation is done, run this command to tell the system
to use the 2.6.6 version by default.

```bash
rbenv global 2.6.6
```

Then **restart** your Terminal again (close it and reopen it).

```bash
ruby -v
```

You should see something starting with `ruby 2.6.6p`. If not, ask a teacher.

## Installing some gems

---

<details>
  <summary>Click here if you are in :cn: <bold>China</bold></summary>


  &nbsp;

  :warning: If you are in China, you should update the way we'll install gem with the following commands.

```bash
# China only!
gem sources --remove https://rubygems.org/
gem sources -a https://gems.ruby-china.com/
gem sources -l
# *** CURRENT SOURCES ***
# https://gems.ruby-china.com/
# Ruby-china.com must be in the list now
```
</details>

---

All, please run the following line:

```bash
gem install rake bundler rspec rubocop rubocop-performance pry pry-byebug colored http
```

If you encounter the following error:

`
ERROR: While executing gem ... (TypeError)
incompatible marshal file format (can't be read)
format version 4.8 required; 60.33 given
`

Run the following command:
```bash
rm -rf ~/.gemrc
```

Rerun the command to install the gems.

**Never** install a gem with `sudo gem install`! Even if you stumble upon a Stackoverflow answer
(or the Terminal) telling you to do so.


## Node (with [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm))

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.37.0/install.sh | zsh
```

Restart your terminal and run the following:

```bash
nvm -v
```
You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.

Now let's install node:

```bash
nvm install 14.15.0
```

When the command returns, run

```bash
node -v
```

You should see `v14.15.0`. If not, ask a teacher.


## yarn

Let's install [`yarn`](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install):

```bash
npm install --global yarn
```

Restart your terminal and run the following:

```bash
yarn -v
```

You should see a version. If not, ask a teacher.


## PostgreSQL

In a few weeks, we'll talk about SQL and Databases and you'll need something called PostgreSQL,
an open-source robust and production-ready database. Let's install it now.

```
sudo apt install -y postgresql postgresql-contrib libpq-dev build-essential
sudo -u postgres psql --command "CREATE ROLE `whoami` LOGIN createdb;"
```


## Ubuntu inotify

Ubuntu is always tracking changes in your folders and to do this it uses inotify.
By default the Ubuntu limit is set to 8192 files monitored.

As programming involves a lot of files, we need to raise this limit.
In your terminal run:

```bash
echo fs.inotify.max_user_watches=524288 | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf && sudo sysctl -p
```


## Extra

### Install video codec H264

On our pedagogical platform (Kitt, you'll soon discover it!), we have some videos. By default Firefox on Linux cannot play them as they use an unsupported codec (H264). To get those videos working for you, you need to run this:

```bash
sudo apt install libavcodec-extra -y
```

### Install useful terminal tools

`tree` is a nice tool to visualize a directory tree inside the terminal:

`ncdu` is a text-based interface disk utility.

`htop` is an interactive process viewer.

`tig` is a text-mode interface for `git`.

```bash
sudo apt install tree ncdu htop tig
```


## Check-up

Let's check if you successfully installed everything.

Quit all opened Terminal, open a new one and run the following commands:

```bash
curl -Ls https://raw.githubusercontent.com/lewagon/setup/master/check.rb > _.rb && ruby _.rb || rm _.rb
```

It should tell you if your workstation is ready :) If not, ask a teacher.


## Alumni
:warning: If you have received an email from Le Wagon inviting you to sign up on Kitt (our learning platform), you can safely skip this step. Instead, please follow the instructions in the email you received if you haven't done so already.
If you are unsure about what to do, you can follow [this link](https://kitt.lewagon.com/). If you are already logged in, you can safely skip this section. If you are not logged in, click on `Enter Kitt as a Student`. If you manage to login, you can safely skip this step. Otherwise ask a teacher whether you should have received an email or follow the instructions below.

Register as a Wagon alumni by going to [kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding](http://kitt.lewagon.com/onboarding). Select your batch, sign in with GitHub and enter all your information.

Your teacher will then validate that you are indeed part of the batch. You can ask him to do it as soon as you completed the registration form.

Once the teacher has approved your profile, go to your email inbox. You should have 2 emails:

- One from Slack, inviting you to the Le Wagon Alumni slack community (where you'll chat with your buddies and all the previous alumni). Click on **Join** and fill the information.
- One from GitHub, inviting you to `lewagon` team. **Accept it** otherwise you won't be able to access the lecture slides.


## Slack

[Install Slack for Linux (beta)](https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/212924728-Slack-for-Linux-beta-).

Launch the app and sign in to `lewagon-alumni` organization.

Make sure you upload a picture there.

You can also sign in to Slack on your iPhone or Android device!

The idea is that you'll have Slack open all day, so that you can share useful links / ask for help / decide where to go to lunch / etc.

In case of remote tickets, you will use Slack audio or video call to get help. To ensure that everything is working fine, launch the Slack app on your Laptop, then [follow this procedure](https://slack.com/intl/en-gb/help/articles/115003538426-Troubleshoot-Slack-Calls#run-our-calls-test) (tl;dr type `/call --test` then the `Enter` key in any channel).

After the test are finished, you should have green "All clear" messages at least for your microphone and camera. If not, ask a teacher.
![](images/slack_mic_cam_all_green.png)
